README.md, before:

[![GPL-3.0 license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%20v3.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/blob/devel/LICENSE)[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/sos_ansible.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/sos-ansible/)[![PR - Pylint Status](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/pylint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/pylint.yml)[![Python Builds](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/python-publish.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/python-publish.yml)

# sos-ansible

This tool has the purpose of achieving easy sosreport reviewing based on custom rules.

---

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Sosreport location and rules files](#sosreport-location-and-rules-files)
* [Running the tool and checking the logs [WIP]](#running-the-tool-and-checking-the-logs-[wip])
* [Running tool via container](#running-tool-via-container)
* [Additional notes for troubleshooting containerized tool](#additional-notes-for-troubleshooting-containerized-tool)
* [Setup Development Environment](#setup-development-environment)
---
## Installation
This tool can be installed from pip
```
$ pip install sos_ansible
```

---
## Sosreport location and rules files
Extract all the sosreport files for evaluation on the same directory as per the example:
```
$ tar xf sosreport-lbenedit-test-node-xxxx-xxx-xxx.tar.xz -C /tmp/test_sosreport/9999999
```

Use the rules file located in this project or create your own. Sharing your rules with your peers is the key for this tools success.
```
$ head rules/rules.json                                                                       
{
    "Filesystem": {
        "files": ["df"],
        "path": "",
        "query": "100%"
    },
    "Installed Packages": {
        "files": [
            "installed-rpms"
        ],
        "path": "",
        "query": "ansible, automation, receptor, hub, keycloak"
    }
}
```

---
## Running the tool and checking the logs
Generate your report by running the sos_ansible main.py code providing the sosreport and rules args.
```
$ /tmp/git/sos-ansible
$ python sos_ansible
[?] Choose the sos directory: 999999
 > 999999
   01234567

Validating sosreports at the source directory: /tmp/sosreports
Validating rules in place: /tmp/rules.json
Processing node lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
Summary:

lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
--------
Controller Node: True
--------
Filesystem: 1
Installed Packages: 10

Read the matches at /tmp/999999
SOS_ANSIBLE - END
```

Currently, the tool logs are located on the current directory, file `sos-ansible.log`.
```
2023-03-15 15:17:10,839 CRITICAL Validating sosreports at the source directory: /tmp/sosreports
2023-03-15 15:17:10,839 ERROR /tmp/sosreports
2023-03-15 15:17:10,841 CRITICAL Validating rules in place: /tmp/rules.json
2023-03-15 15:17:10,841 DEBUG Node data: [{'hostname': 'lbenedit-test-node.example.com', 'path': '/tmp/sosreports/999999/sosreport-lbenedit-test-node-xxxx-xxx-xxx', 'controller': True}]
2023-03-15 15:17:10,841 DEBUG Current policy: {'Filesystem': {'files': ['df'], 'path': '', 'query': '100%'}, 'Installed Packages': {'files': ['installed-rpms'], 'path': '', 'query': 'ansible, automation, receptor, hub, keycloak'},}
DEBUG Target Directory: /tmp, Case Directory: /tmp/999999
2023-03-15 15:17:10,842 CRITICAL Processing node lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
2023-03-15 15:17:10,864 INFO Populating file /tmp/999999/lbenedit-test-node.example.com/Filesystem
2023-03-15 15:17:10,868 INFO Populating file /tmp/999999/lbenedit-test-node.example.com/Installed_Packages
2023-03-15 15:17:10,870 CRITICAL Summary:

lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
--------
Controller Node: True
--------
Filesystem: 1
Installed Packages: 10

2023-03-15 15:17:10,870 CRITICAL Read the matches at /tmp/999999
2023-03-15 15:17:10,870 CRITICAL SOS_ANSIBLE - END
```

By default, the tool only offers a summary from all rules processed and you can find the details on the output directory `/tmp/{casenumber}`
```
$ cd /tmp/999999/lbenedit-test-node.example.com
$ ls
Filesystem  Installed_Packages
$ cat Filesystem
/dev/mapper/rhel-amazing  12345   12345         0 100% /amazingfs
```

## Running tool via container

An alternative to running this on cli directly is to use the container version:

Running the app with docker-compose
```
docker-compose run backend bash
```

Using prebuilt images:
Interactive image:
```
docker pull quay.io/lucas_benedito/sos-ansible-debug
```
App image:
```
docker pull quay.io/lucas_benedito/sos-ansible
```

You may build locally using the following:

from the sos-ansible directory
```
docker build -t sos-ansible:0.0.1 .
``` 


Once the image is built use either `podman` or `docker` to run the command:

``` 
podman run -it --rm -v /tmp/:/tmp/ -v /full/path/to/rules.json:/tmp/rules.json -v /full/path/to/sos-ansible.log:/home/ansible/sos-ansible.log sos-ansible:0.0.1 -d /tmp/sos_reports/ -r /tmp/rules.json -c 999999 
```

Breakdown of args:
  - -d directory where sosreports were untarred(should be /tmp/sos_reports if following the earlier instructions)
  - -r path to rules(this can be whatever you specified in the -v option for mounting)
  - -c case/ticket number where you untarred the sosreport to (example from doc is 999999) this argument is mandatory for containerized invocations


## Additional notes for troubleshooting containerized tool

Currently if you need to debug what is happening inside the container you can use --entrypoint /bin/bash

example:
```
podman run --entrypoint /bin/bash -it --rm -v /tmp/:/tmp/ -v /full/path/to/rules.json:/tmp/rules.json -v /full/path/to/sos-ansible.log:/home/ansible/sos-ansible.log sos-ansible:0.0.1
```

---
## Setup Development Environment
Create virtual environment and use `make init`.
```
$ python -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ make init
```

Commit message:

Add documentation around new --tarball command

README.md, after:

[![GPL-3.0 license](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-GPL%20v3.0-brightgreen.svg)](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/blob/devel/LICENSE)[![PyPI version](https://img.shields.io/pypi/v/sos_ansible.svg)](https://pypi.org/project/sos-ansible/)[![PR - Pylint Status](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/pylint.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/pylint.yml)[![Python Builds](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/python-publish.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/lucas-benedito/sos-ansible/actions/workflows/python-publish.yml)

# sos-ansible

This tool has the purpose of achieving easy sosreport reviewing based on custom rules.

---

* [Installation](#installation)
* [Sosreport location and rules files](#sosreport-location-and-rules-files)
* [Running the tool and checking the logs [WIP]](#running-the-tool-and-checking-the-logs-[wip])
* [Running tool via container](#running-tool-via-container)
* [Additional notes for troubleshooting containerized tool](#additional-notes-for-troubleshooting-containerized-tool)
* [Setup Development Environment](#setup-development-environment)
---
## Installation
This tool can be installed from pip
```
$ pip install sos_ansible
```

---
## Sosreport location and rules files
Extract all the sosreport files for evaluation on the same directory as per the example:
```
$ tar xf sosreport-lbenedit-test-node-xxxx-xxx-xxx.tar.xz -C /tmp/test_sosreport/9999999
```
### As an alternative to using the tar command

`sos_ansible -c 999999 -t sosreport-lbenedit-test-node-xxxx-xxx-xxx.tar.xz, sosreport-lbenedit-test-node2-xxxx-xxx-xxx.tar.xz`

*Note* -t or --tarball takes a comma separated list of sosreports and untars them in the /tmp/sosreport by default. Case number is mandatory for untar feature

Use the rules file located in this project or create your own. Sharing your rules with your peers is the key for this tools success.
```
$ head rules/rules.json                                                                       
{
    "Filesystem": {
        "files": ["df"],
        "path": "",
        "query": "100%"
    },
    "Installed Packages": {
        "files": [
            "installed-rpms"
        ],
        "path": "",
        "query": "ansible, automation, receptor, hub, keycloak"
    }
}
```

---
## Running the tool and checking the logs
Generate your report by running the sos_ansible main.py code providing the sosreport and rules args.
```
$ /tmp/git/sos-ansible
$ python sos_ansible
[?] Choose the sos directory: 999999
 > 999999
   01234567

Validating sosreports at the source directory: /tmp/sosreports
Validating rules in place: /tmp/rules.json
Processing node lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
Summary:

lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
--------
Controller Node: True
--------
Filesystem: 1
Installed Packages: 10

Read the matches at /tmp/999999
SOS_ANSIBLE - END
```

Currently, the tool logs are located on the current directory, file `sos-ansible.log`.
```
2023-03-15 15:17:10,839 CRITICAL Validating sosreports at the source directory: /tmp/sosreports
2023-03-15 15:17:10,839 ERROR /tmp/sosreports
2023-03-15 15:17:10,841 CRITICAL Validating rules in place: /tmp/rules.json
2023-03-15 15:17:10,841 DEBUG Node data: [{'hostname': 'lbenedit-test-node.example.com', 'path': '/tmp/sosreports/999999/sosreport-lbenedit-test-node-xxxx-xxx-xxx', 'controller': True}]
2023-03-15 15:17:10,841 DEBUG Current policy: {'Filesystem': {'files': ['df'], 'path': '', 'query': '100%'}, 'Installed Packages': {'files': ['installed-rpms'], 'path': '', 'query': 'ansible, automation, receptor, hub, keycloak'},}
DEBUG Target Directory: /tmp, Case Directory: /tmp/999999
2023-03-15 15:17:10,842 CRITICAL Processing node lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
2023-03-15 15:17:10,864 INFO Populating file /tmp/999999/lbenedit-test-node.example.com/Filesystem
2023-03-15 15:17:10,868 INFO Populating file /tmp/999999/lbenedit-test-node.example.com/Installed_Packages
2023-03-15 15:17:10,870 CRITICAL Summary:

lbenedit-test-node.example.com:
--------
Controller Node: True
--------
Filesystem: 1
Installed Packages: 10

2023-03-15 15:17:10,870 CRITICAL Read the matches at /tmp/999999
2023-03-15 15:17:10,870 CRITICAL SOS_ANSIBLE - END
```

By default, the tool only offers a summary from all rules processed and you can find the details on the output directory `/tmp/{casenumber}`
```
$ cd /tmp/999999/lbenedit-test-node.example.com
$ ls
Filesystem  Installed_Packages
$ cat Filesystem
/dev/mapper/rhel-amazing  12345   12345         0 100% /amazingfs
```

## Running tool via container

An alternative to running this on cli directly is to use the container version:

Running the app with docker-compose
```
docker-compose run backend bash
```

Using prebuilt images:
Interactive image:
```
docker pull quay.io/lucas_benedito/sos-ansible-debug
```
App image:
```
docker pull quay.io/lucas_benedito/sos-ansible
```

You may build locally using the following:

from the sos-ansible directory
```
docker build -t sos-ansible:0.0.1 .
``` 


Once the image is built use either `podman` or `docker` to run the command:

``` 
podman run -it --rm -v /tmp/:/tmp/ -v /full/path/to/rules.json:/tmp/rules.json -v /full/path/to/sos-ansible.log:/home/ansible/sos-ansible.log sos-ansible:0.0.1 -d /tmp/sos_reports/ -r /tmp/rules.json -c 999999 
```

Breakdown of args:
  - -d directory where sosreports were untarred(should be /tmp/sos_reports if following the earlier instructions)
  - -r path to rules(this can be whatever you specified in the -v option for mounting)
  - -c case/ticket number where you untarred the sosreport to (example from doc is 999999) this argument is mandatory for containerized invocations


## Additional notes for troubleshooting containerized tool

Currently if you need to debug what is happening inside the container you can use --entrypoint /bin/bash

example:
```
podman run --entrypoint /bin/bash -it --rm -v /tmp/:/tmp/ -v /full/path/to/rules.json:/tmp/rules.json -v /full/path/to/sos-ansible.log:/home/ansible/sos-ansible.log sos-ansible:0.0.1
```

---
## Setup Development Environment
Create virtual environment and use `make init`.
```
$ python -m venv venv
$ source venv/bin/activate
$ make init
```
